add article about telemetry (#749)
risingwavelabs/risingwave-docs: docs/telemetry.md

---
id: telemetry
title: Telemetry
slug: /telemetry
---

> RisingWave collects anonymous usage statistics to better understand how the community is using RisingWave. The sole intention of this exercise is to help possible troubleshooting. These statistics are related to system resource usage, OS versions and system uptime. RisingWave doesn't have access to any user data or metadata running on RisingWave clusters including source and sink connection parameters, sources, sinks, materialized views, and tables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RisingWave collects anonymous usage statistics to better understand how the community is using RisingWave. The sole intention of this exercise is to help improving our product. These statistics are related to system resource usage, OS versions and system uptime. RisingWave doesn't have access to any user data or metadata running on RisingWave clusters including source and sink connection parameters, sources, sinks, materialized views, and tables.
```

Technically, doing troubleshooting requires further detailed information.

We understand that not everyone wants to share usage statistics. You can disable telemetry by following the instructions below.

## How to opt out?

You can opt out by setting the `telemetry_enabled` system parameter before starting a RisingWave cluster. You can set the system parameter in one of the three ways:

- Add or update the parameter setting in `risingwave/src/config/<your-config>.yaml`.

```shell
[server]
telemetry_enabled = false
```

- macOS or Linux: Set an environment variable in a terminal window:

```shell
export ENABLE_TELEMETRY=false
```

> - Use the `ALTER SYSTEM` command via `psql`:

Reviewer: Does this require restarting? I am not pretty sure. cc. @odysa 

```suggestion
- Use the `ALTER SYSTEM` command via `psql` and restart the cluster:
```

Reviewer 2: No, it does not. It's on the fly.
